How do we go from this to this?
This is a lot, right?
The good news is the markup looks the same
for all of these different blocks, right?
Let's look at what that looks like.
We've got a div, inside that div,
we've got an image, an h2 for
the name, a paragraph for the company
name, and a paragraph for the bio.
So all the markup looks the same.
So hopefully,
it's not too terrible to try and style.
When we do one,
it should be applied to all of them.
I'm gonna add some class names so
that these are easier to work with.
First of all, let me collapse this SVG,
cuz this is a large block of code here.
Again, I'm gonna use multi-select,
the cursor, multi-cursor, in VSCode,
because since the markup is the same,
it's gonna save us a ton of time.
So what I want to do first, I wanna add
a class to these wrapping divs here.
So I'm gonna highlight this.
Full tag, I'm gonna hit Cmd+D,
one, two, three,
four, I think there's another one,
five, five.
And now I can multi-type at the same time.
So class, and
this is gonna be speaker__wrapper.
Let's do the same thing for
the image, so img,
multi-select five times.
Give it a class of, speaker__photo.
Same thing for, The h2.
I'm gonna call these ones speaker__name,
and then we've got company and bio.
In order to multi-select these, because if
you're playing around with multi-select,
it can be a little tricky, right?
I wanna select all of
the company paragraphs, but
the bio ones underneath
it will also match that.
So I'm gonna select the entire
opening paragraph element plus that C,
that I'll give us
the company elements only.
Yeah, multi-select here,
class="speaker__company", and
lastly, the bio.
[SOUND]
Okay,
Whoo-hoo, okay, now,
we can actually apply some styles.
So our images, looking at our file here,
should have a size of 310 by 310.
So let's go ahead in our speakers.css
file, let's close out the others here.
.speaker__photo, width:
310, height: 310.
Okay, that's a little bit
easier to work with here.
You'll notice some of our
photos are distorted, right?
Anyone know why they might be distorted?
It's just that the dimensions with
the photo don't match what we're trying
to fit it into box-wise, right?
Just fine, but there are some
properties that we can use to fix this.
So there's a property called
object-fit that we can use.
So let's go in here, object-fit.
Let's try contain, remember,
from our cat photo.
What does contain do?
It tries to maintain those dimensions
here, but some of them, again,
it's just not looking right,
so let's try cover.
Let's see what cover does.
Well, that looks a little bit better.
They're now 310 by 310,
although there are a few,
you can see this one here, this one here,
the heads are cut off, right?
So how do we fix that?
>> Aspect ratio?
>> I guess you probably could use that.
>> What if you remove the heights,
you just probably use the width or
the heights?
>> If I remove height here?
>> Yeah, just one.
>> Mm-hm, except they're all
gonna be different ratio.
So here's the reality.
The ideal situation is our photos are
given to us in the dimensions that we need
them, that's the ideal situation,
[LAUGH] right?
If we don't have an explicit height,
they're all gonna be different heights.
So we do want that height.
Aspect ratio might actually work,
I didn't think about that.
I'm curious.
Let's see, aspect ratio, uh-huh, 1/1.
Let's see what that does.
Admittedly, I haven't used
aspect ratio before, so
let's see what happens if
we add it on this class.
aspect-ratio: 1/1, let's see,
does that do anything?
I guess if I remove cover.
Okay, so the ratio here,
I don't know, was 16/9, how do you?
Is it a fraction only?
Yeah, it looks like it.
You probably could use aspect ratio.
That's the short answer.
The long answer is I haven't
worked with it before.
So I'm gonna stick to object-fit and
position them that way.
That was a really good point.
We can use the object position value or
property value pair to go ahead and
center these, right?
Looking at our photos, let's see,
the third one here, And
the fifth one here,
we need to fix those two.
Those are the two we need to worry about.
So in this instance, I'm sure
there are several other solutions.
What I'm gonna do is add
another class to these.
I'm gonna set that to speaker__photo--top.
It's gonna be our modifier here,
cuz I want the photo to
be positioned at the top.
Let's add it to the last one as well
since the head was being cut off there.
Now, in here, .speaker__photo--top.
Before I do this,
let's set that on all the photos and
see why we can't just apply
it to the speaker class.
Oopsie, here we go, object-position: top.
If I do that, this looks much better.
But this is not looking so hot,
these are a little bit cut off.
We want them to be appropriately
centered or positioned, right?
So it's just those two that
we really wanna alter.
So I'm only gonna set it on those two,
object-position: top.
Okay, so now, did I save my HTML?
I did, so it's not showing up, hold on.
I put it on the wrong person,
that's why, silly.
So it was the third and the last.
Let me fix that.
Okay, there we go, [SOUND] there we go.
Okey-dokey, that looks
a little bit better,
we can see everyone's shining faces here,
right?
But, like I mentioned, ideally,
these photos would be in the proper
aspect ratio for you before.
Sometimes this happens and
you gotta play with it.
Okay, now we've got the name
of the company in the bio.
So the name, again,
these are all in the design files.
We want it to be 32 pixels.
Speaker__name, font-size: 32px, speaker,
we'll add the style rules for
the company and the bio as well,
because they're gonna be pretty similar,
company.
Speaker__bio, okay?
So the name we want 32 pixels, the company
has 24 pixels, and the bio is 20.
Okay, cool,
that's looking a little bit more like our,
what is it called, our design file, right?
But of course, the text here is inheriting
that orange color from the body secondary
class, right?
This is fine for our speaker name, which
we want to be orange, but our company and
our bio, we want to be black.
So I'm gonna go ahead,
in our base file here,
let's do, One more variable here.
So we have color-text-on-primary, it'll be
nice if we get color-text-on-secondary.
So I'll just make one more,
--color-text-on-secondary, and
we want this to be black.
So black hex value is 000000, like that.
I'm gonna copy this variable name.
Now, what I could do for the company and
bio is put the color declarations
on both of them, right?
So that's totally valid.
If I want to avoid that, what I can do
then is just combine these two selectors,
so speaker__company and speaker__bio.
Maybe this is a better solution.
I mean, it's kind of a small example,
so honestly,
it doesn't really make
that big of a difference.
But just to switch things up,
we'll do it that way,
except that this one's not working.
speaker__bio is still orange.
Let's see, what's our bug counter?
How many live bugs are we
up to at this point?
That's me being silly.
I wrote company__bio in the markup and
not speaker__bio.
Let's fix that, speaker_bio, there we go.
At least that one was relatively painless.
Okay, so very much like how we
previously had to remove margin off of
the paragraph elements, remember,
we removed that on the home page here.
We also wanna remove it
from the heading element,
because this header has
some default margin, right?
You can see that in our
box model down here.
So what we're gonna do is also just
remove it from the header elements, oops,
like that, to combine that.
So now,
that's sitting a little bit more flushed.
Now, we do wanna have some
spacing between these elements.
It is in our design file here,
there is a red line.
So 36 px between the name and image,
20 between name and company, and
32 between company and bio.
Now, there are a couple ways
that we could do this, right?
So we could add top and
bottom margin to the speaker name and
then bottom margin to company.
We could add bottom margin to the photo,
bottom margin to speaker name,
bottom margin to company.
There are several different
ways you can go about this, and
I'm not sure which is necessarily
considered best practice.
What I'm going to do is add bottom
margin to these three elements.
Is it the right solution?
I don't know, it works.
If you have a strong opinion,
please let me know,
because actually I'm not
certain where I stand on this.
I'm curious where y'all do.
So back to the speaker photo.
Let's go back to the photo, okay?
margin-bottom: 36, I lied to you.
The name is 20, margin-bottom: 20,
and then company is 32.
Nice, we also need to set
a width on the card so
that our content's not
getting super-duper long.
You can see our text is
just continuing on and on.
And actually the longer your paragraph
text is, the more difficult it is for
people to read, it's not as accessible.
So it is good to set a width on there.
I could set the width on
the paragraph content.
I'm gonna actually set it on
the wrapper for the speaker.
So where did you go?
Speaker wrapper,
maybe I haven't defined that in here yet.
Okay, we'll put it up here,
.speaker__wrapper.
Let's set a width on here.
Let's set it to 460.
Let's see how that looks.
Okay, looks a little bit better here.
So the entire wrapper has
now a width of 460, right?
We also want the speaker
cards to be in a grid.
If we look at our design,
it's a 2 by 2 grid, right?
So we could use grid, but
we can also use flexbox, right?
It does look like a two-dimensional
layout, but actually,
if we think about it, it kind of is a one
dimensional layout where the flex items
just wrap onto new lines as needed.
I think that's the least.
I think you could use grid,
absolutely, but
I think flexbox also makes
a lot of sense here.
So, We scroll back up here.
We can see right now,
we have each individual speaker wrapper
at that same level as our header.
So what I'm gonna do just to kind of to
encapsulate all of the speaker cards in
one place, we'll create a div, and we'll
give it a class of speakers__wrapper.
Now, this is different
than speaker__wrapper.
I know it's pretty close.
Let's see if I get any bugs there.
Okay, so now,
they're in their own wrapping div, right?
And now, if we wanna lay them out,
speakers_wrapper,
let's make that a flex container,
display: flex.
And now, they're all in one line,
cuz remember,
they try to fit on one
line as flex elements.
Well, we want them to wrap
like I had mentioned.
So let's try to make them wrap,
flex-wrap: wrap.
Cool, they're gonna break onto a new line
when there's not enough space for them.
They're gonna maintain
their width of what?
I think it was 460, something like that.
It's a little bit better.
It's not exactly what we're looking for.
If we inspect this here,
here's our speakers__wrapper.
If you can see, if we hover over it,
there's kind of a bunch of
space on the right there.
This is where we can use justify-content.
We kind of want some space in between, so
justify-content: space-between, right?
And so now, we're getting that purple,
it's almost like a channel,
it's the space that's
leftover on that row.
It's gonna be in the middle of them.
But maybe we do want to use grid, right?
How do you know?
If we go back to Grid Generator for
a second here,
we know that we wanna have two columns,
we know that.
We want two columns
with a grid gap of 200,
we want 200 pixels of space between them,
let's say.
We don't want them to be right
on top of each other, right?
There's some space there.
So we add a grid column gap of 200 here,
right, maybe something like that.
I don't really care about how
many rows there are as long as
the items are filling
up the available space.
So what does that look like?
Well, maybe we should try it.
If we have a display: grid,
right, we want two columns.
I don't care about the number of rows, but
we do want that column gap of 200 pixels.
We also want the items to
have some row gap as well.
We don't want the items to sit immediately
on top of each other vertically.
So let's give it a row gap as well of,
let's say, 120 pixels.
I want it to be 120 pixels, and that's
what I have on my notes and my screenshot,
and it works.
But for some reason, maybe I had
a larger monitor before, [LAUGH] and
so the window wasn't so scrunched.
You know what,
we're gonna try 120 in our, In our code.
But I might have to wing it,
let's see what happens.
I'm gonna copy this code, right?
So in our speakers__wrapper, Let's
change this to display: grid, right?
Remember, we want two columns taking
up one fraction each, column gap.
Remember, I don't care how many rows there
are, just fill up all the available space.
We want the column gap to be 200,
and I wanted this to be 120.
Now, I'm scared to go back to my browser,
but let's see what happens.
Yeah, I think it was just a matter of,
I'm on a smaller viewport with my MacBook
and I have my nice big monitor, right?
So now,
we've got our 120 pixel gap between rows.
We can see this.
If we hover over this in Chrome,
you can see the actual gaps, the column,
and row gaps here, right?
So actually,
maybe grid is a better solution.
We definitely could use flexbox,
there's nothing wrong with that,
but it seems like maybe
grid is the way to go here.
So now, you can see we get
exactly two photos per row,
they maintain a nice distance.
When we resize the window, though,
that's not very nice, right?
That's because we've defined a finite
width on these cards, right?
So instead of using width,
let's say, max-width.
I wanna say the maximum width these
cards will be is 460 pixels, right?
So now, instead of having
that overflow on the x-axis,
now they're squishier up to
a certain point, of course, right?
They're a little bit squishier and
more responsive.
They won't be any wider than 460 pixels,
but
they do squish up into a certain point.